README.md, before:

# TeamsStatus

## Introduction
This PowerShell script/service uses the local Teams' log file to track the status and activity of the logged in Teams user.
Microsoft provides the status of your account via the Graph API, however to access the Graph API, your organization needs to grant consent for the organization so everybody can read their Teams status.
This solution is great for anyone who's organization does not allow this.

This script makes use of two sensors that are created in Home Assistant up front:

* sensor.teams_status
* sensor.teams_activity

sensor.teams_status displays that availability status of your Teams client based on the icon overlay in the taskbar on Windows. 
sensor.teams_activity shows if you are in a call or not based on the App updates deamon, which is paused as soon as you join a call.

## Important
This solution is created to work with Home Assistant. 
It could be adapted to work with any home automation platform that provides an API, but you would probably need to change the PowerShell code.

## Installation
* Create the three Teams sensors in the Home Assistant configuration.yaml file

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: template
    sensors:
      teams_status: 
        friendly_name: "Microsoft Teams status"
        value_template: "{{states('input_text.teams_status')}}"
        unique_id: sensor.teams_status
      teams_cam_status:
        friendly_name: "Microsoft Teams Camera Status"
        value_template: "{{states('input_text.teams_cam_status')}}"
        unique_id: sensor.teams_cam_status        
      teams_activity:
        friendly_name: "Microsoft Teams activity"
        value_template: "{{states('input_text.teams_activity')}}"
        unique_id: sensor.teams_activity
```

* Generate a Long-lived access token ([see HA documentation](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/auth_api/#long-lived-access-token))
* Copy and temporarily save the token somewhere you can find it later
* Restart Home Assistant to have the new sensors added
* Download the files from this repository and save them to any folder (we will use C:\Scripts in this example)
* Configure the Service using one of the two methods below
  * Using Environment Variables (preferred as it allows you to change the script files easily without re-adding your configurations)
    * Add a variable `TSHATOKEN` with the token you generated (ie: eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1... with many more characters)
    * Add a variable `TSHAURL` with the URL to your Home Assistant server (ie: https://yourha.duckdns.org or http://192.168.1.50:8123)
  * Edit the Settings.ps1 file and:
    * Replace `<Insert token>` with the token you generated
    * Replace `<HA URL>` with the URL to your Home Assistant server
    * Adjust the language settings to your preference
* Start a elevated PowerShell prompt, and execute the `Install.ps1` script
  ```powershell
  C:\Scripts\Install.ps1
  ```
* When asked, enter your Windows password, the service will be installed under that user to have access to the registry key for the camera
* After completing the steps above, start your Teams client and verify if the status and activity is updated as expected.
  
## Uninstallation
You can uninstall the service by executing the `Uninstall.ps1` script, using the previous path as an example, in PowerShell you would run:
  ```powershell
  C:\Scripts\Uninstall.ps1
  ```

## Contribution
Pull Requests are welcomed!

## Credit
Original work by EBOOZ, which can be found here: https://github.com/EBOOZ/TeamsStatus.
As the project seemed abandoned with multiple PRs not being addressed it has been cloned into this repo.

Commit message:

Update README.md to ensure the install file is unblocked first, ensure all files will be unblocked in the installer, add missing sensor reference in README.
closes #1

README.md, after:

# TeamsStatus

## Introduction
This PowerShell script/service uses the local Teams' log file to track the status and activity of the logged in Teams user.
Microsoft provides the status of your account via the Graph API, however to access the Graph API, your organization needs to grant consent for the organization so everybody can read their Teams status.
This solution is great for anyone who's organization does not allow this.

This script makes use of three sensors that are created in Home Assistant up front:

* sensor.teams_status
* sensor.teams_activity
* sensor.teams_cam_status

sensor.teams_status displays that availability status of your Teams client based on the icon overlay in the taskbar on Windows. 
sensor.teams_activity shows if you are in a call or not based on the App updates deamon, which is paused as soon as you join a call.
sensor.teams_cam_status shows if you have your webcam turned on or not during a call.

## Important
This solution is created to work with Home Assistant. 
It could be adapted to work with any home automation platform that provides an API, but you would probably need to change the PowerShell code.

## Installation
* Create the three Teams sensors in the Home Assistant configuration.yaml file

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: template
    sensors:
      teams_status: 
        friendly_name: "Microsoft Teams status"
        value_template: "{{states('input_text.teams_status')}}"
        unique_id: sensor.teams_status
      teams_cam_status:
        friendly_name: "Microsoft Teams Camera Status"
        value_template: "{{states('input_text.teams_cam_status')}}"
        unique_id: sensor.teams_cam_status        
      teams_activity:
        friendly_name: "Microsoft Teams activity"
        value_template: "{{states('input_text.teams_activity')}}"
        unique_id: sensor.teams_activity
```

* Generate a Long-lived access token ([see HA documentation](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/auth_api/#long-lived-access-token))
* Copy and temporarily save the token somewhere you can find it later
* Restart Home Assistant to have the new sensors added
* Download the files from this repository and save them to any folder (we will use C:\Scripts in this example)
* Configure the Service using one of the two methods below
  * Using Environment Variables (preferred as it allows you to change the script files easily without re-adding your configurations)
    * Add a variable `TSHATOKEN` with the token you generated (ie: eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1... with many more characters)
    * Add a variable `TSHAURL` with the URL to your Home Assistant server (ie: https://yourha.duckdns.org or http://192.168.1.50:8123)
  * Edit the Settings.ps1 file and:
    * Replace `<Insert token>` with the token you generated
    * Replace `<HA URL>` with the URL to your Home Assistant server
    * Adjust the language settings to your preference
* Start a elevated PowerShell prompt, and execute the following scripts
  ```powershell
  Unblock-File C:\Scripts\Install.ps1
  C:\Scripts\Install.ps1
  ```
* When asked, enter your Windows password, the service will be installed under that user to have access to the registry key for the camera
* After completing the steps above, start your Teams client and verify if the status and activity is updated as expected.
  
## Uninstallation
You can uninstall the service by executing the `Uninstall.ps1` script.
Using the previous path as an example, in PowerShell you would run:
  ```powershell
  C:\Scripts\Uninstall.ps1
  ```
Note: You must have run the `Install.ps1` at some point or you will get a file "is not is not digitally signed" error.
If that happens, simply run the following before executing the uninstaller again:
  ```powershell
  Unblock-File C:\Scripts\Uninstall.ps1
  ```

## Contribution
Pull Requests are welcomed!

## Credit
Original work by EBOOZ, which can be found here: https://github.com/EBOOZ/TeamsStatus.
As the project seemed abandoned with multiple PRs not being addressed it has been cloned into this repo.
